
The Analytics team of a US Superstore would want to design a Sales and Performance dashboard to analyze the
sales based on various product categories and other factors which have a role to play in the running of the store. The
store's managing head, or the owner, wants to add user control for the product category, so users can select a
category and can see the trend month-wise and product-wise accordingly.
The Analytics team would also want to analyze various other things like how many days the store takes to ship the
product, how many times a Customer orders a product, how much time is there between the first and second order of
the customer etc.
The Super Store’s database keeps track of the following data fields:
● Order ID – Id of the order created by the customer.
● Order Date and Ship Date – Date when the item was ordered and the date when the item was shipped to the
person.
● Shipping Mode – Mode of shipping
● Product Category – Category of the product
● Product – The product that was ordered
● Sales – Quantity of the items ordered
● Discount – Discount value on the product
● Profit – How much profit was earned on that product
● Order Priority – Priority of the order determining delivery
● Customer Name – Name of the person who ordered the item.
● Customer ID – Unique ID for each Customer
● Region – Region where the sales was made.
● Order Month – Month when the order took place.
● Manager – Managing Head of Regions
● Customer Segment – Tells about customer type

SCOPE OF ANALYSIS

The superstore wants to see and analyze the sales trend month-wise and product-wise and work upon the lagging
segments and outperforming employees accordingly. The Analytics team also wants to analyze the database in depth
to help the superstore grow exponentially. The Analytics team wishes to answer the following objectives: -
1. Sales, Quantity and Profit of each product category
2. Segment Distribution of each product category
3. Sales and Profit throughout months of a sales of each product category
4. Regional Sales of each product category
5. Overall Sales Trend throughout months of a sales year
6. Distribution of Order Priority
7. Customer Ordering Trend
8. Analysis of work Performance of Regional Managers
9. Comparison of sales and profit product category wise
10. Analyzing Shipping priority share.
Aim of this project is to answer the above objectives in the form of visualization by creating a dashboard to convey
the answers effectively and efficiently.
